[Music]
yeah getting in shape that was like one
of my escapes I guess a kid that was
like the thing that I did to like make
myself feel significant I mean initially
I started working out because I didn't I
mean I wanted to be able to like kick
people's asses who were talking [__] to
me making me feel like [__] and
legitimately I started going to the gym
like once a week in eighth grade I go in
there and it's like a look at you know
what the other guys and they were doing
I would do it and then like for someone
like me that had a lot of like and again
at the time there's not an awareness of
this but like I was an angry Kid I was a
sad kid I was the type of kid who
wouldn't look you in the eye when we
spoke because I didn't have any
confidence but like when I started
working out and sort of like build my
body I started to like develop
confidence and develop like all these
other like positive things and you know
obviously taking it with me and this is
something that I've heavily prioritized
and I I truly believe that like Fitness
which are my fitness for talking about
like you know working out and the diet
like more importantly I firmly believe
that you know our quality of life is in
direct proportion to the quality of the
food that we put in our mouth and we
know objectively that we are a byproduct
of and you know the way we think our
standards are a byproduct of the people
we surround ourselves with an emphasis
right you start getting onto that though
because if you're a kid you're angry
you're pissed you're not looking people
in the eye you start lifting I'm
guessing that that doesn't come from a
place of a realization about diet and
[__] just comes from I want to be able
to punch someone in the [__] mouth
yeah walk me through that that to me is
interesting so you and I responded to I
won't definitely was not an angry kid I
had a very now looking back his very
obvious that I had a wonderful and very
easy childhood yeah but I was physically
insecure in that there were people that
were bigger than me and I could tell
that they were they could manhandle me
if they wanted to and so I had to be
very cognizant and I think guys are far
more aware of this than girls like in
every exchange that you have even as a
[__] adult you know somewhere in the
back of your mind like is this could
escalate now probably won't because the
society and all that but it could and
when you're
kid it sometimes does and so you went
and got stronger and I sometimes wish
that had been my response and my
response was to get funny mm-hmm and
there's no question that verbal ability
is the cornerstone of my success and so
in some ways I'm very grateful for that
but also in some ways for the male mind
that that's still a fragile way to deal
with things and when I started lifting
it was partly response to that I would
literally look at my wife and imagine
her being raped and I thought imagine
being a guy that couldn't stop that from
happening and that because I don't enjoy
working out that was the only way for me
to like push her it and I know people
think that's really [__] dark and it
is it not get it but at some point you
have to do something like whatever
whatever it is you need right whatever
it [__] takes exactly and so I'm I'm
in the gym I do not like it aesthetics
was not enough to get me motivated
longevity was not enough to get me
motivated it is today but it was not
within my 20s so I had to put myself in
this place of imagine the feeling you
would have because when it's just me I
don't know it's not as motivating but to
imagine that someone were trying to hurt
my wife and me not be able to stop it
like that was the motivation when I was
at my biggest I used that every [__]
day I get it man
I get it so my childhood was anything
but traditional my mother had me when
she was 16 all right she had a lot of
problems she was a drug addict my dad
actually took off before I was even born
so like he wasn't around just because of
the person and where my mother was at
that time you know I was taken out of
her care multiple times early on spent
some time in foster care group homes
ultimately you know just got pulled from
her altogether so bouncing around like
that not having a father figure and just
you know being in the situation that I
was exposed to you like you develop
certain traits and tendencies and
patterns and you think a certain way and
again like that was like the majority of
my childhood I was like is that way like
what is it doing to you and how much
awareness did you zero five zero of
course app zero I mean when so people
sometimes you know throughout like my
at the age of 20 25 26 that's when I
started to like change my story and said
and stop like feeling sorry for myself
and thinking that because of what
happened I used to think that because of
all the things that I was exposed to
whether it was my child did the fact I
mean I was arrested 17 times part of my
18th birthday that's crazy
I mean I was arrested another half dozen
or so times after my 18th birthday but
like I used to think that those factors
and I mean that would prevent me from
ever being something that was important
or significant or being someone that
actually [__] mattered so you know
that story around 25 26 but again like
you know when you're a kid and you're
coming up like just looking back on it
like there wasn't an awareness like
understanding that I didn't have what I
saw some friends of mine having I didn't
have like the the dinner at the table
with the family it was always very
awkward for me if I was in a situation
like that because I didn't really know
quite how to act and again like that
might sound very silly to somebody but
at the time it was a it was a real thing
and it just it it I always felt out of
place in situations like that and you
know I feels like Tom to be in a
position where you know you're being
made fun of all the time because you're
wearing the same clothes same dirty
clothes and I also know what it feels
like to have to steal dirty clothes I
have a lost in mountain in school just
so I had something new to wear and again
like in my mind at the time I thought
that by getting in shape going in the
gym that could at least I'd have that at
least I you know I could look physically
better I suppose and maybe start getting
a respect or you know maybe have people
look at me differently and not looking
down on me which again I felt was the
case I think in a lot of ways it may
have been the case but I definitely
don't think it was as profound as I mean
that's all you're thinking about I mean
it's that's what your reality is gonna
be and again like at the time I just I
knew that uh I I was I was an angry Kid
and again when I started to get older in
my teens in high school like now I kinda
have like a an outlet or I could go out
and I could show my ass and I could do
really stupid [__] and
get in trouble get arrested and gain
significance I could get there's
something cool about being the kid that
wasn't afraid 1,000% I mean it's not
[__] cool it's actually the stupidest
thing now I don't know man so let here's
the interesting thing that I find in
your story because you and I are polar
opposites of how we responded to
adversity and growing up it is really
interesting - there's no question you
got yourself into trouble but there's
also no question that the reason that
you kept doing that is it works and
there is something cool about somebody
that's like [__] it like I forget who
said it but they were saying what's the
point of having [__] you money if you
never say [__] you and it's like what's
the point of being strong if you never
stand up for yourself and I 1000% this
is not me saying the way that you did it
make sense smart it was really [__]
stupid and I know you've said that
course a million times but at the same
time I get how not showing fear - the
very thing that everybody else is
terrified of would actually get you a
certain level of social cachet and it
did like I'm not gonna sit here and
dispute that like it definitely did
but again that's short-term [__] and
that's that's a tension that doesn't
really matter that significance even out
of that thank you for asking that
so again 17 times I was a recipe for my
18th birthday eventually the state of
Massachusetts like got tired of my [__]
they I was a very familiar face it's
always the same you know like clerks and
you know police prosecutors you're
seeing all the time ultimately they came
to the realization the very accurate
realization that I wasn't learning I
mean I was arrested for again it's sort
of it like super minor you know underage
drinking
trespassing possession of marijuana
before they decriminalized in
Massachusetts you know like fighting
like a battery with a dangerous weapon
so it started to come along as a battery
of the dangerous problem we're starting
to yeah elevate yeah under age drinking
here this is so so it started to
escalate a bit and eventually like they
just again the Jura line in the sand and
they basically gave me an ultimatum and
they said that uh I could either go to
jail for seven months or join the
military and I opted to join the
military obviously I mean that
that in the sense is one of the best
decisions I've ever made it now here was
this though 2001 it's when a graduate
high school is this before September
11th I was in boot camp during September
11th man cuz would you have made the
same decision if it was after 9/11 and
you knew this is essentially eminent
deployment yes really yeah that denied
have been [__] conflict I was I was
actually in boot camp when it happened
again it's I wasn't like a normal kid my
I didn't think like I was oddly I mean I
wasn't pumped up about what just
happened in the state of our country but
I was pumped up to be in the game how
hardcore are you lifting at this point
um you know again it's all relative
right like at the time to what my
standards were then like pretty hardcore
right I mean again there was really it
was just me getting in there doing
whatever but I wasn't eating it I was
eating like [__] I mean during the
majority of like my high school years I
was a very self-reliant so I was having
to do a lot of my own cooking and again
I was eating a like pretty much
steadfast diet of rice and ketchup and
angel hair pasta with no sauce but yeah
those are two things I knew how to cook
that's amazing and again like you know
you're young you can get away with that
and still look a certain way I could not
yeah so I've heard yeah but uh you know
boot camp was obviously a big wake-up
call for me right like a kid who you
know again like I was not a great kid
didn't have any uh any structure didn't
have a father figure didn't have like a
Thorat Aryan figure didn't have any
discipline so boot camp was basically
exactly what someone like me needed it
it began to teach me the importance of
taking pride in the details the employee
break you or did you give in to it yeah
again like I was very mentally weak at
that point in the sense that I would I
would feel like things were personal I
would feel like the yelling and I mean I
got a lot of extra attention I got a lot
of extra attention because of my
attitude because I was physically fit
and again there was an awareness of
why they were doing what they're doing
it it really pissed me off when I would
make my bed perfect as good as I
couldn't I hated that I hated that drill
they would make legitimately they would
like you'd sit there for two hours over
and over and over over again make your
bed and you know when everybody else was
done they'd come look at my bed which
would be perfect and they would [__] it
up and then make me keep doing it I
would get so angry inside I didn't you
know like lash out or anything like that
but they could see it and my sir ever a
time where you began to understand why
they were doing what they were doing
long after well really really
interesting so what experientially as
it's happening what do you think these
guys are just dicks are you asking like
why me 100% I thought there were dicks
there they're jealous that I looked the
way that I did whatever weird [__]
weak narrative yeah but again like
ultimately there's the the training is
progressive it gets to a point where
they're not screaming at you and
treating you like dog [__] every second
of every day and then you start to feel
a little better you start to you know we
learn how to iron your uniform your
uniform look sharp sooner you start to
stand a little straighter and taller you
start to look people in the eye and it
doesn't feel unnatural and that was a
big deal for me so again like I was very
fortunate to have served and not just in
the military but I was a part of very
elite community I was a Navy diver so
after I went to boot camp I went to some
specialized training which is basically
like a fallback in the event that I
didn't make the dive school at the time
there's about a 70% attrition rate in
dye school six months training which is
longer than actual boot camp and you
know like academically physically
mentally the the challenge that you
faced and that were much more profound
and extensive than you know that of
normal boot camp but by the time I got
there I was just in a different place
mentally and although I still didn't
like you know being yelled at I still
didn't like you know some of the the you
know people coming and just like
screaming in my ear when I'm doing
everything right I was in a better place
to deal with it and you know ultimately
being in that community serving with
some of the most elite you know
individuals of all the military it was a
big deal for me it helped me grow up it
helped me learn how to conduct myself
like him
and it it taught me the importance of
having high standards and again it just
it really taught me how to look at the
world differently which the the big the
I think the most profound breakthrough
for me with my military career wasn't so
much like the discipline the structure
all these things that you know we're
speaking about it was the fact that
ultimatum actually got me out of Boston
which all of the not-so-great things and
energy and people and environment and
memories that had kind of shaped me into
being the kid that I was and the reason
I was thinking that ways goes around all
the [__] and when I was removed out of
that I started to look at the world a
little different I'm not saying I
completely you know squared myself away
because I most certainly did not but it
was the first time that I started to
really kind of recognize that like
environment plays a I mean dude it plays
a profound role in your entire [__]
quality life and the thing that is
really sad is people will live their
entire [__] life not realizing that
yeah this this to me is my fundamental
thesis in life is that who you think of
as you is a construct you've made it up
its cobbled together from so many
complicated things not the least of
which or like you said the memories that
you have the energy of the people that
you're around the momentum that you've
created in your life of being the person
who is in trouble with the law that
people turn to for an outrageous moment
if you're at a party and the cops show
up you know that people want to see how
you're gonna react and it would be such
a deviation from who you see as yourself
to not I had a similar experience so
when when I was growing up like I said
my defense mechanism was humor and the
role that I played in my family was the
peacemaker so I learned to be funny and
my family loved it I learned to be funny
to defuse a situation that I couldn't
defuse physically but when I went to
college because my brand of humor was
always self-deprecating like I would
make fun of myself before you could do
it and so I could get out of anything so
if somebody wanted to fight or whatever
I would just make fun of myself and then
there was nothing left to fake their
power yeah exactly
it was very effective strategy but it
did leave me feeling some kind of way
about myself sure and so when I move to
LA I think hey this is my chance to
reinvent myself and like number one on
my list of reinventions was I wanted to
take myself seriously so I said alright
I'm not going to make fun of myself
anymore I'm going to take myself
seriously as an artist I'm going to
really study sites to cheat in high
school like a madman and I'm gonna do
all my own work I'm not gonna cheat sink
or swim a or F I'm doing everything
myself and so it was like this real
switch in my personality it's a big deal
big deal
and so flash-forward I'd meet my be the
woman who ends up becoming my wife like
six years later and I meet her and I'm
just being who I think of as myself and
I'm like hey I want you to come meet my
family and so we went for Thanksgiving
flew back home and she'd never seen me
around my family and all of a sudden
because the expectation is that I'm the
funny guy I immediately snap back into
it and I start cracking jokes every two
seconds and they're in hysterics and my
then girlfriend now wife is like who the
[__] are you she's like what is
happening and she was like I really
enjoy this but it's so shocking and she
was like it came out of left field and I
can see how because I didn't intend to
slide back into that role but I'm seeing
the same things I'm back in my old
bedroom my family looks at me with that
expectant look when there's like an
opportunity for a joke and so it's like
you know that they're sort of waiting
for you to be that person and it's
what's that quote I'm not who I think I
am I'm not who you think I am I'm who I
think you think I am and you get that
that's a real part of who you think of
as yourself because what are people
reflecting back to you yeah whether you
are aware of it or not whether you like
it or not the people around you they
dictate your mindset and they
essentially raise or lower your
standards and you are not in control of
that it's I mean you could have
conscious awareness of it but the fact
is I mean we are I mean the energy man
like it's it's it's contagious and it is
going to affect us profoundly and this
is something that like I've I've I've
continued to like evolve and become more
consciously aware of and now like dude
I'm like borderline obsessed with just
optimizing my entire
meant to [__] feel good I mean I'm
like the majority my lap I would say to
this point you know 36 years I've been
on this planet the majority of my life I
haven't felt good I can honestly sit
here and tell you that and now like I I
know what it's like to feel good I know
what it feels like to be happy and I
want to preserve and protect and just
basically do everything in my power
which is a lot to again like essentially
dictate my own happiness by being
mindful of who and what I surround
myself by you have an opportunity right
now to set a lot of people free I want
to know how did you gain self-awareness
because you're somebody who didn't have
it yeah didn't know why you were angry
or why you were doing the things you
were doing or even understand why these
guys are yelling in your ear and making
redo your bed and all that but you do
understand it now yeah so when did that
like what was the first glimmer of it
and how did you develop it fully yeah so
just building up building up to that I
ended up getting out of the military
prematurely I was 23 again I went from
having structure discipline routine
order in my life to one day to the next
is no longer having any more I made the
decision get out had I stayed in I would
I had to leave Jacksonville Florida I
was stationed at the time and I'd like
Jacksonville and I had I developed a
positive association with Jacksonville
and I guess I had like a again at the
time I'm not aware of it but looking
back on and I'm thinking that the I
didn't want to go to a place where I
felt shitty again so I stayed in
Jacksonville got out of the military
ended up working in a strip club
despised that and working I mean look
you most young guys would like thrive at
the opportunity to work in a strip club
I didn't like who I was when I was in
there there was just this the human
beings that were coming in there the
people that worked there they just made
me feel less good about myself they
again lower to my standards I was in a
position I was drinking at work to make
the you know the the shifts more
tolerable getting in fights with the
customers messing with the girls i
alternate lea got to a point where I
despised working in the strip club so
much after two years I quit to become a
drug dealer okay spent the next seven
years as a drug dealer living my life
the legit polar opposite of how I'm
living it now and again
I was just carefree partying five nights
a week like all the cash I was making
and yet at the time to my standards then
it was a lot of money proportioned to
what my bills were but again like I was
literally I took that uh what I call the
first job mentality where we you know
we're fifteen we get a hundred-dollar
page yet we know that we have like that
hundred dollars between the Friday you
get paid the next Friday spend again all
the money that I come in I'm spending it
just as quick and eventually got to a
point man where I just I started getting
older I started seeing some other drug
dealer friends the time you know getting
in trouble getting sent to prison and I
started to really recognize what
ultimately was in my future and do you
remember though that because here's what
I want to get to so you and I have both
worked with a lot of ex-convicts yeah
and one of the things you start to
realize is okay your frame of reference
is completely [__] up you're not
seeing the world the way that I see it
mm-hmm the world's the same for both of
us and but we're not seeing it the same
which means we're moving differently
we're making different choices my
choices are leading me to generate
wealth in my life to create stability
functioning relationships and yours is
not so you begin to go okay how do I
make them aware of that because until
they can self assess until they can
begin to process this makes sense this
doesn't this feels good even if it's
just that in fact that's probably where
we should focus this doesn't feel good I
don't like the way this person makes me
feel where I want to feel this way or
whatever but if they don't recognize
that mechanism they're stuck so what I'm
hoping you can articulate is like what
were those first like I saw my friend he
was dealing drugs and he was just a dick
to the person who selling to and I
thought huh that's a reflection meat
like how did that process begin to
happen yeah so the thing that made me
want to like just get out and start
going in different paths is I started to
feel that if I didn't I would go back to
being looked upon being looked down upon
as that kid that I was growing up and
that really freaked me the [__] out I
wasn't afraid to go to prison I wasn't
afraid of getting locked up I was afraid
of being looked down upon and going back
to being this like insignificant just
human that really nobody gave a [__]
about
so I went to someone that I respected
and I basically just my cars at the
table and I told him everything and I
said listen I want better for myself I
have no [__] idea what to do or where
to start as like is there anything that
you can put me on to somebody who you
know I looked up to at the time was a
very successful individual and he put me
on to two things he said that I needed
to start reading everything I could get
my hands on related to becoming a better
human being all right and then I needed
to start surrounding myself with people
who were better than me so the answer to
your question is personal development
right and it's I talk about this all the
time now like that we hear it all the
time and people are watching this and
people are reading these books they're
listening to podcasts or doing all these
things but I don't think they fully
recognize why they're doing it and it's
very important that you do the purpose
of personal development is not necessary
to learn this thing about like this fact
from this person is doing this this
certain way it's to learn how to think
different and that is a continuous
process it's a it's an ongoing like
evolution so like the way that I was
able to you know start recognize these
things and there are still things that
I'm recognizing about myself or about my
past in because I mean I'm I personal
development is what took me from you
know being a drug dealer to you know
being a you know been featured in Forbes
happened of a dozen times grew an
eight-figure company with legitimately a
team of convicted felons ex-convicts and
former drug addicts like personal
development is essentially it's it's
like a it's like the water that you know
nourishes the seed and allows it to grow
and allows it to prosper and we have to
stay consistent with it and understand
why we're doing it not because we're
looking for the pump up not because
we're looking for the short-term fix or
like that short-term answer and that's
the thing like a lot of people watch it
like this they listen to [__] like this
they read these books and then they
[__] do nothing with it it's
legitimately like like like masturbating
and then like not getting the payoff the
payoff is on the other ends of the
executions if you've got
do [__] you got a do [__] you've got a
like take chances and like you know when
you learn to think differently you're
essentially like understanding that like
you're never gonna feel ready you're
never gonna be like feel good enough
you'll smarten up but you have the
confidence to know that you know what
you're gonna step up to the edge of the
cliff without a parachute he's gonna be
afraid but it's okay you're gonna step
off and you know you're gonna figure
[__] out on the way down yeah I think
there's two things that really [__]
people up number one is they're coming
up to the edge of the cliff and they
don't believe they can figure it out on
the way down and so their whole life is
about stay away from the edge of the
cliff yeah and I think so I call that
the only belief that matters the only
belief that matters is that I don't need
you to believe that you're exceptional
right you're hopelessly average like
that maybe the great realization of my
life is that I'm hopelessly average but
I can improve yeah and once I allowed
myself to believe that I could get
better as a function simply of being a
human not that there was something
special about me not that I was better
than anybody else because that's a
really terrifyingly fragile place to be
it's like valuing yourself for being
smart it's like you're going to
encounter somebody that's so much better
than you that you're just gonna be like
completely [__] shut down yeah and so
I thought okay I'm hopelessly average
got it now if they're the most average
person ever has the ability to grow and
get better and I'm the most average
person ever then I have the ability to
grow and get better cool so now I have
the only belief that matters because now
I'm gonna put energy into improvement
the other thing is people don't want
[__] like this is the big frustration of
my life and the one thing that and this
really really bothers me too like a deep
and fundamental level and if if I were
to take what is it sodium pentathol the
truth serum if I were to take that the
thing that you would see is really
lurking around in my soul is I secretly
want to crack the code for being able to
want it for other people yeah
like to find some way to like get them
to want for their own success the way
that I want for their success because
once you want it and you believe your
energies will be rewarded then you just
you [__] take the steps you do the
things you need to do but if you believe
you can get better but don't want it or
you want it but don't believe you can
get better like either one as sort of
this you're going to shut down at some
point
and it's interesting to me do you
remember like what the first part of
your personal development whether it was
the first book or just the first idea
that really resonated with you yeah I do
the the thing that that ultimately
changed my life almost on the spot and
essentially laid the foundation for you
know my future at the time was you know
back then this was the bike around 2009
2010 I started with the personal
development back then again there wasn't
as many resources social media wasn't
was what it is now there wasn't shows
like this there wasn't all the podcast
so there was YouTube and there was books
and has a drug dealer I had a tremendous
amount of free time on my hands as you
can imagine started reading a lot of
books watched every minute of content
that Tony Robbins had on YouTube and
part of his thesis you know back then to
this day is you know if you want to be
successful look at someone who's doing
it whatever model what they're doing
another thing that he talks about is how
when he was at some very low points of
his life and you know couldn't you know
figure I was gonna pay his bills
whatever he went and he helps someone
else who needed help more than him so
okay I'm like okay Tony Robbins you're
saying that if I want to be successful
model son was successful okay I'm gonna
model you and you're also saying that
giving back and contribution in
philanthropy is the keyboard
whatever found an outlet and opportunity
at some local church to serve the
homeless and again I I go into this not
because I really care about helping the
homeless not because I really care about
giving back and again this is a very
strange thing because I've been homeless
at multiple points of my life so one
would think that would resonate with me
it didn't I went there for one reason
and one reason only because this guy on
this YouTube video said that this was
gonna help me change in my life and Tom
he wasn't wrong because within the first
10 minutes of me being at that church I
I had felt something that I had never
experienced and you know the 27 years
that I've been alive to that point I was
overwhelmed with just deep feelings of
gratitude
pride perspective and purpose and right
there I realized that I needed to figure
out some way Taurus I could experience
those feelings all of the [__] time
because I was hooked yeah it's super
weird I it's the one part of my message
where I always feel cheesy talking about
it but there is something hardwired in
this social animal where service really
makes a difference from a neurochemical
perspective and I'm really trying to get
people to understand the punchline of
life is neuro chemistry so it isn't
success as it's traditionally defined
it's not money it's not Fame it's not
accolades because I can give you all of
that and there was like a rash not too
long ago of like ultra successful people
committing suicide was a Kate Spade I
think it was a billionaire she committed
suicide it was like this whole rash and
it was like you can give people all the
money in the world the famous Jim Carrey
quote I hope everybody gets as rich and
famous as they want to be so they can
realize it's not the answer but it's
like okay well then define what is the
question and the question is what makes
life worth living and the answer is how
do you feel about yourself when you're
by yourself now the way that that's
constructed is super [__] complicated
and has a lot to do with what do you
value what are intrinsic drivers because
I think there are universal drivers that
are hardwired into the human animal and
one of them is is purpose one of them is
service it's having meaning in your life
and knowing why you're doing what you're
doing and getting people to focus on
that in the midst of the chase right so
I lost eight and a half years is about
the real number I usually round it to
ten but I lost lovely eight and a half
years of my life chasing money yeah and
it was an all-out chase I hated my life
but I showed up every day and I was like
I'm gonna [__] grind it out I'm gonna
stick it out like I've got the
discipline mm-hmm to see this through
and finally it just was so horrendous
like you when you were I don't know if
you were bouncing but when you were
working at the strip club and you're
like I [__] yeah well a drug dealer
you know so what were you doing but I
was doing a combination of bouncing bar
backing cleaning the vomit off the floor
in the bathroom you name it I did it but
I did it with purpose I did it better
than anybody
around me I mean that was something that
I kind of took with me from the military
in regardless what I was doing whether I
liked it or not I wanted to be the best
because I wanted to stand out I didn't
want to look be looked down upon like oh
well it's actually really interesting I
always tell people so that we're living
in a weird time where people think
interning for free is bad now you're
somehow being taken advantage of and
what I really want people to understand
is going back to your point about
modeling find the person who's living
your ideal life and go and tell them
that you work for them for free but when
you're they're [__] nothing is
beneath you do everything like it was
your Mona Lisa like go [__] crazy to
do things to the level of artistry so
even if you're cleaning vomit off the
floor and I remember one time back at
Qwest because I'm a huge believer that
you have to lead by example so you can
never ask somebody to do something you
wouldn't do yourself and one day the
toilet overflowed there was actual [__]
on the floor and the you could tell the
janitor was like oh [__] man I don't
know if I want to do this and I said no
no no let me do it yeah and so I cleaned
up the [__] and they're like why are you
doing that and I said because I want you
guys to see for real not like that I
talked about it at opportunity there's
literally nothing that I won't do so
that when I come to you with aggression
and I'm like I need you to [__] take
care of this like you know what is going
on that you know I'll take the worst job
and make it fun and I will pick up [__]
when it is on the floor like what ever
it takes yeah but that is not going back
what you were saying this about like
giving back and contribution and like
that you know Universal like driving
factor of like feeling good so I think a
lot of people just again like me
I didn't value it I was only doing it
because I again watch this video from
this guy and I was just man I was just
looking for a way out man right so I
think people they're not getting excited
about it they're just cause it's kind of
not my thing and whatever like
understand it's not necessarily just
about you going and serving and helping
other people like do it because you're
selfish do it because arguably you will
actually benefit more than the people
that you are helping and I know that
might sound kind of [__] up but we it
is very very important that we
understand that like I think the
difference between people tom is
obviously our standards but we don't
just like come out of her mom's vaginas
with like okay this person has low
standards a doctor is kind of like
separating or this person middle saying
this person is gonna crush it in life
like our standards are a reflection of
the actions that we take or fail to take
and a lot of times the actions that we
take that you know move our life forward
are a result of us feeling good enough
to do that and we're not always gonna
feel great but honestly like in order to
get yourself up and get yourself moving
like you know it's gonna get up and
[__] feel good man you have to take
action it's a process through your
physical fitness through your mental
Fitness through your contribution those
three things I mean those are the three
things that have allowed me to create
the life that I have for myself and I
have you know taken that and and again
this was it wasn't a process of a
specific strategic process that I
followed it's just kind of like how the
cookie crumbled so to speak but then you
know when I was able to look back on it
and kind of piece it together I was able
to kind of regimen regimen and I was
able to systematize it and you know I
legitimately have those three elements
in place at my company every team member
at my company is responsible for
personal development mandatorily one
hour per day do you tell them like what
they should be doing yes we have the
building wired with with speakers so
again like it kind of has that
accountability factor there one hour a
day they play whatever the it's it's
it's a month out they have like a
personal development calendar and when
personal developments on like there is
no talking it's like church they're
working and they're listening and
they're getting better I also pay my
team to do the physical training twice a
week early in the morning I have a
trainer come in and they do like a
high-intensity like I was a crossfit
style working out outside hottest [__]
coldest [__] whatever the hotter the
better the colder the better
it's another opportunity to get that
much more uncomfortable like I'm paying
them to do that because I recognize that
through Fitness and through like doing
really hard things like that is how we
develop competence that is how we earn
the right to feel good about ourselves
and I also pay them to do community
service
every single week as a team we go out in
the community together and you know
there's a number of things where I have
a company called nutrition solutions we
do healthy meal prep for people and you
know either were out in the community
feeding the homeless donating to less
privileged kids or legitimately Tom just
going out in the local community and
cleaning up the streets and the reason I
am willing to invest in that the reason
I'm willing to pay these people to do
that isn't so I can like glorify it on
the show like this or like poster all
over social media to you know like try
to get that like stroke pat on the back
it's because I know that without
question by doing those things as
individuals they become better people
which in turn makes us get better as a
team and ultimately allows us to grow
prosper and [__] dominate as a
company how do you think about culture
so you and I both hired ex-convicts
mm-hmm it's you said in an interview one
time and I just really resonated it
doesn't always work out like people want
that to be a Pollyanna story and the
reality is it's [__] rad and it felt
really cool and I loved it the most but
for a lot of people they just didn't
they weren't able to get their [__]
together and I wasn't the person that I
want to be I mean ultimately like I said
I want to be able to want it for people
I want to be able to crack that code and
like sit somebody down in front of a you
know a three-minute video where I just
cut straight to the you know their soul
and the world [__] opens up and they
do it but it as of yet in my life I'm
not capable of that so it became this
really fascinating thing of on one hand
I'd get people who would come grown
[__] men like teardrop tattoos like
like hard [__] yet and they
would come break down in tears and be
like you cared more about my future than
my own mother okay so I had some of
those but then I also had people
stealing from me and it was like you
know [__] super shifty and really
uncomfortable and you have to [__]
get rid of them so it's like I wouldn't
say it's like some magical pool of
people to pull from and yet it spoke to
my soul in a way that is hard to explain
yeah so how do you think about culture
why do you give opportunities to people
that are probably a little
find your average potential employee you
know I I just feel with I mean I was
given a second chance I mean I was given
multiple second chances but yeah three
years ago I was uh arrested for crimes
that I had committed three years prior
so one day I come home again I'm at a
very different point in my life I had
walked away from my previous life things
are going okay for me you know with the
company again I was in a radically
different place but at the time to my
standards and I got two detectives at my
doorstep served me on a warrant for
crimes committed three years prior I'd
got set up and I went through an
extensive legal process it was about a
four month process my bail was half a
million dollars to give you some
perspective they weren't [__] around
they wanted me to I wanted me to snitch
mmm
I respectfully declined I just couldn't
Matt I couldn't imagine destroying
somebody else's life because I wasn't
willing to be held accountable for
decisions that I made I legitimately had
just got myself to the point where I was
like okay you know what I'd rather sit
in a prison cell for however many years
and actually maintain my dignity than be
free and know that I was too much of a
[__] to take responsibility for my
action so they're like when you don't
cooperate it the the story about how the
legal stuff shakes down we will get to
but that is so [__] interesting I
need to stop you for a sec yeah so the
building the identity of somebody who
would rather deal with their own
consequences than be a [__] and rat
somebody out how do you get to that
point win-win so you start doing Tony
Robbins you start building a sense of
self you start I know Tony talks a lot
about identity drives behavior so I'm
guessing identity is something that's on
your radar how do you put your identity
together how do you think of yourself
now like are there words that you use
like don't be a [__] yeah like give me
give me say those no matter how yeah so
so Flint's if some people may find you
yeah I mean listen like whatever it we
all communicate differently right we all
whatever it takes yeah that's what you
said in the beginning in this
conversation and like
at the time I mean look I had made a lot
of progress personally professionally
mentally financially you know and I just
realized that you know what like I did
what I did for a lot of [__] years
and this is the direct this is the
consequence and I you know was in a
position where my bail was a half a
million dollars and they were trying to
make an example out of me right I was
selling steroids again I'm not trying to
minimize what I did but I mean like
there were legitimately like rapists and
people who molest children that get
lesser bail than that but I was able to
you know bail out I'm saved but I didn't
have half a million dollars be paid ten
percent of that you get out that money's
gone that's everything I had and they
wanted they wanted legitimate the deal
offers 24 months in prison and I fought
it man
I mean I went all-in I just legitimately
thought that but how do you get an
identity that that lets you do that
that's so far I like that it is like
being a [__] coward like I looked at
it so what are some of the rules that
you live by now like today I'm assuming
it was the same thing that led you to
that so don't be a coward
what you have to take responsibility
over everything the good the bad
everything I mean whether like if it's
in weather it's it's it's a something
you've created or something that just
affects you in any way shape or form
taking responsibility is like the
ultimate superpower and that's what it
was I felt that I needed to take respond
and I and I had essentially taken
responsibility over you know my future
back then by again like making the
consciousness to draw a line in the sand
that's are creating a different life for
myself did you say that like today's a
new day I am I'm now crossing some sort
of metaphorical threshold yeah I knew
what was happening I knew that it was
like a I mean look I remember when I was
uh when I started my company when I was
allowed or at a point where I was
capable of paying myself five hundred
dollars a week I felt like the [__]
man at that point because that was the
first time I'd ever made that much money
in a official legitimate legal capacity
you created yeah it felt [__] good
now I also realized that I had a [__]
ton of work to do I mean I was dealing
with all of the stress and the chaos and
like the you know the crushes are so low
when you're starting a business and
you're trying to figure it out but again
like I I felt at least I was doing
something that I could be proud of even
if I wasn't making a lot of money even
if I was failing which I was I did a
considerable amount of failing the first
several years but again like I just you
know I just kept pushing and I just kept
fighting and it was it taking
responsibility was again the thing that
basically allowed me to have the courage
to step away from my former life which
that's a tough thing to do man most
people don't do that on their own terms
they do that because they end up getting
in trouble I mean of course I ended up
getting in trouble but I had already
walked away three years prior right so
like you know taking responsibility mean
a core value my company is extreme
ownership is based like taking
responsibility on steroids I just didn't
want to be a hypocrite man I I knew that
I had to be a man and knew I had to face
this and honestly what does it mean to
be a man to find that for me to be a man
doesn't matter what gender you are just
to be someone who operates with
integrity honor and always does the
right [__] thing even when it doesn't
feel good mmm yeah I love that it's
interesting to me how important it is to
define who you are way stand for what
you're willing to do but not a lot of
people get tested mm-hmm so what I love
about your story is that you got tested
like that [__] is real to not take the
deal means that you're gonna face a much
more exaggerated in penalty yeah
because they're like well [__] you you
made us do all of this now we have to
like I'm the money matically so like you
really put your money where your mouth
and not only that Tom I didn't deny what
they said I was gonna do that is [__]
unheard of
like the charges against me I didn't
deny it and again against my attorneys
advice because that's you don't do that
right but I honestly like I I had just
I'd felt so different when I had walked
away from being a drug dealer
how good about no longer having to like
look over my shoulder have that like
near paralyzing anxiety of like you know
what are they gonna come knocking on my
door when is the bottom gonna fall out
of this [__] thing what am I going to
be sent to prison all these things and I
I literally thought that I there's no
way I could go into a courtroom and
expect a judge or just uh you know the
opposing counsel to believe that the one
or two times that I had like you know
that I got set up actually got set up
three times that was the only time that
I'd ever this is what I did and I said
it to the cops like I did this for a lot
of years I was this person but I'm not
anymore and they knew they knew they
obviously looked at my life now and seen
that the changes that I had made but
again like they're just they're they're
they're it's it's a game I mean that's
what the legal system is and and this
capacity and nobody
it was my actions that brought me into
that situation and that process man it
it took a lot it took a lot out of my
man that took a lot of years off my life
they took all the money I had and then
some but I had to fight man I had about
you know maybe 10 or 11 employees at the
time and when you're that small of an
organization you're it's a lot more
intimate right like you have a lot more
personal relationships you know about
these people you know about their
families you know about the
responsibilities they have and although
I knew I'd be okay if I got sent to
prison and I kind of had you know if I
get sent to prison
I'll just this be part of my story and
I'll come out and I did it it uh I knew
I had to fight and I couldn't make this
deal I couldn't just lay down because
had I done that I'd be letting my team
down I'd be putting them in a position
where they'd be out of work they
wouldn't be able to you know have income
to support their family and take care of
the responsibilities so that was kind of
you know my driving forced to keep
fighting and you know it was about a
four month process and in just shocking
turn of events I go in the day to be
sentenced the the judge had reviewed my
mitigation I had a hundred people that
showed up to the court me it's a big
deal man it's a big [__] deal
just thinking about it right now makes
me a little emotional like
I was there walking in not knowing if
I'd be walking out on my own freewill
and the judge asked to address me in the
courtroom and she basically said that
she had reviewed my mitigation she had
read the the character testimonies
she was familiar with who I was and the
work that I'd done in the community and
she told me at my sentencing that I
should be proud of myself or what I've
been doing in the world and she told me
that the purpose of prison is
rehabilitation and that she couldn't
responsibly send me to prison because
she felt that I had already done that on
my own so I got a second chance that day
I was let off with probation which was
like being sent to Disney World and all
expensive expenses paid trip compared to
what the outcome could have been and
from that day forward man that is when I
decided that I needed to pay it forward
to the universe for this this
opportunity this gift that I was given
that most people would never get and I
needed to do everything in my power to
get the very most out of every single
second of every single day and part of
that would be the responsibility that I
chose to take on to help people that
come from situations that look like mine
that come from situations that were
worse than mine because I figured it out
then and statistically speaking the
overwhelming majority of people do not I
figured it out and I wanted to basically
do my part and I from that point
dedicated my life to helping other
people basically bridge the gap between
where they are and where they want to be
and that's not just with people who you
know have been in prison on time come
from you know or broken homes been
abused it's just it's it's it's anybody
but my work with people who've been in
jail and addicts and people who walked
you know the the road that I did I knew
that I could utilize my company in that
platform that I had already and I could
immediately begin to basically practice
what it is
was preaching and and and help people in
an intimate capacity and it was
something that was like okay from this
point forward we're gonna have this it
was kind of something that organically
happened I started attracting these
people and then from there it was
something that I realized my you know
what like we got something here and you
know the beginning of this like part of
the conversation you mentioned that you
saw an interview where I said you know
it doesn't always work out mmm if I was
a seer to say oh it doesn't always work
out I mean that would be an extremely
exaggerated statement the fact is it
doesn't work out a hell of a lot more
times than it does mm-hmm
but the times that it does Tom that
feeling that sense of accomplishment
knowing that you have directly
contributed to basically helping someone
become a better human being given
someone opportunity they never would
have been able to get on their own
because their record and all this and
given them the ability to learn how to
just become a better human being and
provide a better life for themselves and
their family there is nothing no feeling
that comes close to that and I'll tell
you like for every ten people three of
them work out I don't look at it as oh
well you know I seven losses I look at
it like I'm batting 300 thats a big
[__] difference man you're batting
300 that's good enough for the Hall of
Fame and we go with that yeah no I I
totally get that talk me through your
interview process how do you interview
what are you looking for because that's
a obviously pulling from a high-risk
population so what's the process yeah so
obviously once this became like a little
more public information and I had a
couple different news media outlets that
had me on to talk about this so we
obviously were opened up a little more
and we had a little more activities for
people applying so we had to tighten up
and regiment the recruiting process but
whether it's you know someone who is
coming to us that has a record that was
a former addict that used to be homeless
whatever
or just someone who's just coming that
you know was just lived a normal life
like we're looking the only two things
that you really need to work at
nutrition solutions is you need to have
a good attitude you need to be willing
to work hard as it pertains to convicts
and people who have done time convicted
felons and such the only thing we're
looking for in that aspect is have they
taken responsibility because it's we
know going into the interview right like
it's it's part of the like the initial
process paperwork background checks so
like when they're asked about it if
there is any like sort of just
indication oh well you know it's in this
situation this other person and I just
was I was in the car like like sorry and
I will coach them up will tell them like
look that's you know I don't do those
interviews anymore but my team is
trained they know we're like have they
owned it but if they can without
hesitation without flinching look you in
the eye and say here's what happened
this was my situation at the time this
was the position I was in I made some
very bad decisions but I'm here today
committed to do whatever I need to do
for as long as I need to do it to create
a better life for myself and my family
and it is honestly that simple
unfortunately most people think that
their past defines them I mean I was one
of those people from the majority of my
life they think because this blemish no
matter how bad it is that defines their
current reality and essentially dictates
their future and they try to avoid it
they try to you know pretend like it
doesn't happen and when it comes up it
gets super uncomfortable failing to
realize the best thing they could do was
what you used to do when you were a kid
you you make fun of yourself a guy you
just [__] say it you put it out there
before anybody else has a chance to and
then it goes from a point where people
look down on you to people actually
respect the [__] out of you and that was
the thing that I was so afraid of for
the longest times like [__] like I'm
trying to start you know this business
and
gonna take me seriously and I'm like
trying to act like I was legit and it
wasn't until I [__] just put it out
there man
and it was hard but then once I did that
the legitimate and total opposite of
what I thought was gonna happen happened
mmm
I gained respect instead of lost it yeah
it's so interesting like when you own
who you are then it's people are gonna
pick up on your vibe they're gonna
respond the way that you respond it's
interesting how you can really set the
tone for that kind of stuff yeah we had
a similar reaction so when we started
telling people well we technically put
word out on the street as they say so
one of our earliest employees was a kid
that grew up on the streets and we told
him hey like look man my whole
philosophy in life doesn't matter who
you are matters who you want to become
and the price you willing to pay to get
there so if you have friends that are
[__] convicts I don't give a [__]
because he was like I've had a lot of
friends that have you know been to jail
or in they're in gangs whatever what do
you think cuz we're like [__] we have to
hire man we got to hire anybody yeah and
so I was like yeah I don't give a [__]
like bring him in because my thing was
like look if you want to build a company
let me tell you something you have to
get real [__] good at so for all the
like people out there that are want to
be entrepreneurs you've got to get to
the point where you can look across the
table at somebody and figure out who the
[__] they are and here's the truth
you're gonna suck at it I sucked at it
for sure but you've got to be a little
bit better than chance and once you get
a little bit better than chance then you
can start to build something you can
create momentum and I remember there was
just one time we were growing so fast
dude so you'll get this because you're
in a similar space we grew by fifty
seven thousand percent in our first
three years alone that was in
manufacturing so now you're one were in
Compton we're hiring as fast as we can
conceivably hire ya and we're having
like when once we said that we'd hire
convicts like we had people lined up
around the building and it was of course
to hire people that fast your we had to
find a way to interview multiple people
at the same time and it was getting so
weird and I'm super curious to know if
you had the same thing so keep in mind
I'm small compared to yellow so I have
these thug ass [__] coming in
to interview they've
the teardrop tattoos the [__] shaved
head tats crawling up their neck on the
face like the whole [__] nine and in
no way shape or form can I show weakness
so I have to project yeah cotton
confidence doesn't struck with [__]
strength aggression like the whole nine
so the this becomes like this super
weird phase in my life where people that
know me now that have seen me on camera
so they they would not believe like how
weird those environments were and my
whole thing was I have to burrow inside
your soul so what I was saying at the
beginning I in three minutes so my goal
I would come into every interview
thinking this is my chance this may be
the first and only time this person ever
encounters a growth mindset mm-hmm so
one they're gonna see you can't back me
down you know I can't be cowed so I'm
gonna whatever level of aggression you
bring I'm in a match or I'm going to
exceed and then on top of that you're
gonna know by the end of this [__]
interview I want you to win mm-hmm I
want you to win I want to create an
environment where you can come in and
I'm gonna ask you to [__] break
yourself in half yep to improve your
life but I'm gonna give you the platform
to do that so we had these people coming
in like [__] three at a time five at
a time
and so I'm having to develop shorthand
and I finally I come up with this magic
Genie question so hey I know it looks
like a bottle of water that was always
my thing it looks like a bottle of water
but it's really a genie lamp in a minute
the magic genies gonna appear they're
gonna grant you one wish and one wish
only you can't ask for more wishes it's
got to be something just for you what do
you want I can't cure cancer bring
somebody back from the dead like what
the [__] do you want and everyone said a
million dollars it was like this whole
thing it was super [__] surreal to me
that they all said that but like getting
to the point like what's your dream and
realizing they didn't have a [__]
dream like they'd never thought beyond
like I want a job which is what they all
first told me I want a job that's
[__] you're just saying that because
you want to get hired like it's a magic
Genie don't ask for a [__] job yeah
so what do you really want oh I want a
million dollars
hmm which is patently absurd you can't
buy a house for a million dollars so it
was like I began to realize okay wait a
second we have a frame of reference
problem but it began to reveal to me who
people were really really fast and we
had this one guy come in and I'm sitting
in the interview and it's him and two
other guys
and I'm doing the whole thing and he is
mad dogging me like [__] crazy like
he's clearly trying to test him he's
trying to see that I could fall back
down like is this guy for [__] real
or what and in the middle of the meeting
I point at him and I'm like you have
anger management problems and he was
like his jaw hit the floor yeah and I
sent the other two people out and I said
look I want to talk to just you and so I
take him for a walk and he was like how
the [__] do you do that I'm like what
are you talking about there's like how
did you know that I have anger
management problems I literally drove
here from an anger management class Wow
and I thought this is what it means to
be good in a room you know and this is
what it means to develop a skill set
because the honest answer was I didn't I
don't have any innate special skill but
I'd interviewed so many people by then
and I just done little tests yeah like
let me throw I remember one time saying
to a woman she was talking about
something and I was like the way she
moves is like crazy graceful so I'm like
well you know back when you were taking
ballet lessons and she was like what the
[__] she couldn't believe but it was
like it was just a [__] guess right
but you do this enough you start to get
pattern recognition but you have to
train yourself so I'm like whatever it
is you're trying to do you've got to
push yourself to get to the point where
you're getting good at it like you have
to invest in everything like it's
practice you're not gonna have like here
so I used to study magic I have an
obsession with magic that's interesting
oh dude my thing is world breaks down
into two people there's the kind that
when they find out how a trick is done
they're disappointed and the other kind
when they find out how it's done they're
more excited you know now I'm gonna give
away all of magic for you what makes
something magical is the person has
worked so impossibly hard and long and
thought so far in advance that you
simply would rather believe that they
can bend the laws of physics and that
they would work that far in advance
planning things a year or 18 months or
work on a trick for 5-10 years before
they can pull it off now you think well
there's no way that somebody would work
on something for ten years or go to the
you know like the manufacturer of this
basketball to get a card put inside when
the basketball is being made no that's
what they really did yeah and it's like
people just not it's not possible so the
to get good at something to me is like
magic you've just worked so long and so
hard at
and fallen on your face so many times
and the number of things that I was like
oh remember the time that you took
ballet and the person's like what the
[__] you talking about
and so because you miss you just get it
wrong but you're like refining refining
refining refining and if people took the
time to make that demand of themselves
to get to the point where they can
really be good at interviewing and look
I've done enough of it to know it's
[__] brutally difficult yeah and I'm
at like 57 percent accuracy instead of
you know 50 is just pure chance so this
is not me saying that I've you know
gotten so good at this that I can you
know see through people's souls but it's
like you you begin to get one up on the
house which is failure yeah yeah
when you think of the house always wins
you just fail like that's the default
position we're trying to start a company
and so doing all this just inhuman
amount of practice and you get to the
point where it looks like magic because
you've worked so long at it that people
simply refuse to believe that it's just
an unending amount of hard work yeah I
mean man this is such as life like
whatever whatever you do you've got to
do it bad before you do it good you know
and I think a lot of people just there's
so many incorrect
I guess associations with certain things
like you know like if you're tired or
like when you don't feel like it or it's
cold or it's too hot in Sligo that means
we don't say no like I think when it's
also none Tom like without question
there's going to be far more many days
that we didn't feel like doing something
that we didn't feel like going and
putting forth that effort to get better
at whatever that thing is that we're
trying to improve on there's gonna be
more days that we don't feel like doing
that than days that we do and I think
the difference between winners and
losers the end of the day is winners
just get up and go do it anyway they do
what they need to do because they
understand that the happiness that all
of us seek as human beings doesn't come
with the material goal does come with
that one million dollars that but that
you know you rub the genie lamp it comes
with the progress and progress is a
direct positive consequence of work
sacrifice inconsistency and that is
legitimately it and we're not talking
about like you know bundles of money and
like you know huge companies I mean
maybe some of us are but some people you
know they just kind of drift throughout
life you know the average American will
have 12 jobs by the time they retire and
they go from job to job the job because
they get to a point where they just they
feel as if they hate their job 87
percent of Americans report not having
passion towards their job dude that's
[__] that's crazy like you're [__]
if you don't have passion towards your
job or eighty percent actually say they
should have hate their job dude enjoy
your shitty life there's a lot of things
out there that are gonna tell you that
like go do what you love that is
fundamentally impossible for the
overwhelming majority of normal people
you have to train yourself to learn to
love what you do I don't know if I agree
with that okay so so here's my thinking
on this I think that you're where you're
going is directionally correct so people
aren't you're not going to accidentally
love your life but I would tell people
rather than try to fall in love what
you're already doing like develop love
for something you actually give a [__]
about so I want people to be blank
slates that would fit my worldview a lot
more than what I think is the scientific
reality which is you're probably about
50/50
so 50 percent is temperament it's you're
born with that [__] it's your genetics
it there's nothing to be done about it
and then 50 percent is epigenetics so
it's it is your your unique like genetic
abilities and temperament and all that
married with how'd you grow up what were
the things you encounter what were the
coping techniques what's the identity
that you tell yourself what do you take
ownership do you not what are the rules
what are your habits like all malleable
[__] so I think there really is
something that people have that would be
a spark of interest and the thing that I
think really [__] people up is they
don't have six months of saving and if
you don't have six months of savings
you're stuck in Maslow's hierarchy of
needs you're gonna take you're gonna
keep the job even though you [__]
hate it because when you look at leaving
the level of panic that consumes you at
the thought of like what the [__] would
I actually do like to
yeah it is so big and terrifying you
don't know which way to bounce if people
had six-month savings and you knew that
you could and you were [__]
disciplined about it so that if you left
and you ate up three months of savings
looking for somebody actually cared
about you build it back up and you'd get
to six months again and that way you
could always be looking at your job
rationally and saying do I actually
enjoy this did I make a mistake did I
try to win the job oh my god that was
something used to drive me [__] nuts
yeah people would come in still now to
this day probably worse now because
they've seen the content and so they're
not thinking oh this is still [__]
work or they don't believe me when I say
I'm the most die-hard [__]
you're everything to me so if you're
gonna work around me like be real
careful not who you model your life
after but they try to win the job right
so rather than going to actually want to
[__] work here they're just trying to
get picked
mm-hm and because they don't have six
months salary and because they were
trying to get picked and because they
have like this they don't have a rule in
their own life that all of this needs to
add up to neuro chemistry they just end
up in these weird [__] positions but
they could if they had the six month
salary and they realized that a job is
50% of your waking hours and they made
the demands of themselves they're going
to find something I think this is based
on a real spark of interest and that's
where maybe we disagree is I think there
are some things you're not gonna be able
to fall in love with and so I'm and I am
admittedly like if my wife were horribly
burned I would I would find a way to
still fall in love with that yeah so but
at the same time my advice to people is
you're going to craft a passion base it
on something you actually give a [__]
about yeah you could do that the I think
a lot of people put our end up in
situation where they don't have the
savings because even if they are making
let's say a surplus of money compared to
be speaking to their bills they hate
their job they take that energy with
them outside that other 50% and they're
going to spend money on things that
temporarily you know give them that like
serotonin head temporarily make them
feel good give them that short-term
gratification when you're not Pat
generally passionate about something
it's gonna make it very very difficult
to go above and beyond it's can make it
very difficult to get up early
- [__] hammered out late - like work
weekends work holidays - essentially do
the things that you need to do to
separate yourself from the pack and
bring value to an organization and
essentially be financially compensated
when I say that passion can be developed
I mean I don't know that this is like a
an opinion I mean I lived it for the
first five years I [__] hated my
company I hated everybody that worked
there was everybody else's fault I
didn't like what I was doing that I
didn't come up privileged Tom so it
wasn't like like a foodie with a like
high-end palate right
I have no culinary background so in my
mind again I was a different person then
my mind worked a lot differently I'm
selling food I'm selling food I couldn't
get passionate about that
it wasn't until I again this was after I
mean a lot changed after my sentencing
and I was given a second chance and I
mean I say a lot change but it was my
mindset that change which is just a
million things kind of organically
evolved due to that it wasn't until I
started in creating and incorporating
things that I was passionate about into
my company that I fall in love with it
essentially bringing in personal
development as a mandatory part of the
workday paying the team to do the the
the physical training doing the
community of mom and said I never
thought about before having in my
business but stuff that like made me
feel alive like on a personal level so
once I was able to do that not only did
I actually start enjoying what it is I
was doing started making a lot of money
when before that I mean I was making
money I mean like on paper like there
was the apparent according to my
accountant there is money but in the
bank accounts it was a different story
because I was spending it as fast as it
was coming in so I just think it's it's
it's it's a mindset I think the the the
easiest way in quickest way to become
passionate about something is to be the
best at it reframe you know your mindset
about what you're doing and just look
for a way mean like if you again like I
I talked about this on my podcast the
other day but I was giving some examples
about you know how anybody can just
learn to be passionate about what they
do and let's say
you're a mechanic right here turning
wrenches all day whatever and you know
you people come in and you're looking
for opportunities to upsell them on [__]
that they don't even really need and
they don't really understand and just
making what is for most people a very
stressful situation like that much worse
you don't give a [__] you're in there
just just trying to [__] people out of
their money essentially like you could
be that guy and be the guy who literally
lives paycheck to paycheck despises what
he does for living and again like has a
relatively low quality life or you could
be the guy who looks at every experience
every customer experience as an
opportunity to make like us what would
ordinarily because in a very stressful
situation for most people a little less
stressful by being honest by being fair
by helping them to the process
recommending like I mean if they don't
need something like or if there's a
service that they could do on their own
do it cheaper turn them on to that even
if you lose that little bit of income
like you and I know that that comes back
in other ways in abundance but it's it's
a way to just look at what you're doing
instead of just the fact you're in there
turning wrenches like no like you're in
there to help people solve a real
problem you're in there to help people
get the means of transportation that you
know allows them to commute to work to
produce income to take their kids to
soccer practice take their family out to
dinner like it's just a different
mindset when you go into with that
service mentality the entire game
changes man and that is how you grow a
business that is how you grow on a
personal level is by do anything in such
a way that essentially serve and bring
value to others and when you see what
happens when you do that when you're
under receiving end of that gratitude
that is where the passion in my opinion
is is ignited it's a great book by Cal
Newport if I'm not mistaken called so
good they can't ignore you and he talks
about how passion is developed and that
passion a key component of passion is
mastery and that was a big epiphany for
me and when I read that book I was like
you're so [__] right I do think it
has to be built around something that's
real for you and I think that it's
telling that
for you to to create the passion in your
business you started bringing in things
that you cared about and that's the one
thing that all sort of caution people
against is rather than try to fight
upstream and create it based on
something like if you [__] hate your
job you need to one take total ownership
you have to look at that is it just you
with a piss-poor attitude and it's based
on something you give a [__] about and
you've just wrapped it in garbage or is
it something you really don't care about
and it's time to move on but assuming
that there's a spark of real interest
there then going down the path of
gaining mastery is it's pretty
interesting that that is something that
feeds into it so it's created a sense
for me that passion is like love I don't
think you're actually in love unless
it's reciprocated you're infatuated but
you're not in love and it's not going to
give you energy in fact there's there's
a darkness - unrequited love there's a
desperation to it and neediness whereas
when you really feel connected to the
other person and it just feels like
reciprocal and yeah there's something
beautiful and it gives you energy that's
how I feel about passion if you're
getting so good at it that it has
utility and it allows you to serve not
only yourself but other people then your
it really does give you energy because
when you're thinking about building this
thing you're thinking about the ways
that it's actually gonna allow you to
move through the world in a way that you
value yeah and I think that one of the
going back to universal values I think
one of the universal values is is it's
something that was hard to obtain it's
unique to you and it allows you to help
other people I think there's just that
magical trifecta yes I agree powerful
I'm I was never passionate about like
cleaning puke off the floor in the strip
club but I was passionate about like
being the best at what I did and I knew
I had to do it so if I was gonna do it I
was gonna be the best at it I was gonna
clean that floor in such a way where
after I was done somebody would feel
comfortable eating a prime rib directly
off of it and that's Korean well those
that type of like attention to detail
when you take pride in like those
undesirable tasks like that cultivates
like just habits and just good solid
like regimented discipline that I mean
again if you can't take pride in the
small things if you can like just excel
and dominate with the small tasks
it's it's it's pretty unreasonable to
think that you're gonna be able to do
anything on a higher level you know at a
higher level yeah now that that is for
sure and how you do anything is how you
do everything and I think that that's
one of those things that I heard a lot
and I didn't really understand what it
meant yeah and I think I'll say it a
different way whatever internal rules
govern your actions they they govern all
of your actions yes so if it is okay to
you to tell people that you do one thing
and then do another then you're gonna do
that with everything doesn't matter
things that don't matter it's like so I
engineer hard things into my life and
part of what makes that so sustainable
for me is I love the feeling when in a
public forum I get to say I did that
thing and even though nobody's there to
check me I get the neurochemical reward
because I know I actually did it so even
though nobody's looking I'm not doing it
for the feedback from other people that
would be totally empty if I knew I was
bullshitting it's the way that I feel
because I know that it's actually true
yeah and I know that I was consistent so
that rule about this is about how I feel
about myself and that governs all of my
actions so I'm not going to [__] or
take on something that I'm not prepared
to crush because I know it's not going
to serve me so I think people have to be
really careful about the about taking
control of the rules that they live by
is that you have rules whether you
realize what they are or not one of your
rules may be do whatever you can get
away with and that's a rule I see a lot
of [__] lit by and so it's like
well as long as nobody else knows I'm
fine with it but you want to talk about
violating universal principles of the
human animal the human animal is drawn
to integrity if I say something I do
something and the desire to be congruent
I don't know why it's hardwired into us
but it is yeah and it probably serves an
evolutionary advantage from if you're
congruent then you have trust within the
group if you're trusted within the group
you're more likely to be protected by
the group which means you're less less
likely to get ostracized I'm making that
[__] up yeah but I'm guessing it's gonna
be something like that so knowing that
we're this social creature once you
begin to parse out like what are the
universals live in accordance with those
then you can begin to layer on fancier
things that are maybe unique to you but
like first getting an alignment with the
universals doing a job well is always
and forever going to make somebody proud
the end yeah and like and the other
thing is like you said when you're not
doing thing or when you're doing things
and people don't know dude just because
they don't see you doing something like
doesn't mean you can't tell so you can
[__] tell right like people's lives
look the way they do not because the
[__] that they do when the boss is
watching or when the spotlights on it's
a result of the [__] that they're doing
or not doing when they're alone and when
nobody else is watching and that's a
real fact and I think a lot of people
are quick to get frustrated or like
disgruntled or you know bitter resentful
in a situation in a business whether
they're working in a business or working
at their own business and they're not
growing things aren't happening well
things aren't happening because you're
not doing things that you need to do to
make them [__] happen and I think
that people tend to under I mean look
man this [__] is hard like it's hard but
it's supposed to be hard so we you know
that it kind of just changes the game a
little bit like hard isn't bad mmm hard
is necessary it's interesting hard is
truth it just is hard so for whatever
reason like I'd be happy if it weren't
hard that would be amazing although
there's mechanisms within us that I
think if you did yeah there's there's
nothing there so it's I know you're
right extreme ownership so I love Jocko
willing this idea of oh it's hard good
right that notion of once you lean into
the pain then everything changes and
there's this really [__] fascinating
documentary called sick life and death
of Bob Flanagan super masochist now I am
not recommending it because the guy
literally nails his penis to a board on
camera and it is the only time in my
life where I actively had to put my
hands in front of my eyes I couldn't
[__] watch it was so crazy and but it
is utterly fascinating this guy had
cystic fibrosis so his whole life from
the time he's a kid his he's sort of
slowly dying from the clogging of his
own
lungs with mucus so you're basically
drowning yeah but he it took him 40
years to drown so like imagine slow the
amount of pain yeah just [__] crazy
so when he's like 11 he starts putting
needles needles in a belt and whipping
himself with it and in the documentary
I'm thinking this is so [__] crazy
I had never encountered this idea ever
before in my life and it was like
looking into the abyss of human nature
and realizing they're they're like
weirdnesses to us as an animal and his
whole explanation was I took control of
the pain and that like I have the chills
now that resonates like when I go to the
dentist that [__] hate the dentist
man but I forced myself like if they're
doing something that really hurts I
opened my mouth wider to make sure they
can really [__] get in there and once
I switch my mind to I'm not trying to
avoid the pain I'm asking myself one
[__] simple question how much can I
bear once I flip my mind to that like
[__] I'm in control here I can
go all the way I will not break like
when you begin telling yourself that
narrative when those are the words that
are running through your head the neuro
chemistry in your own [__] mind
changes and that's why I like I want
people to get this is a game of neuro
chemistry so you [__] worrying about
what somebody else does you saying that
this is their fault are you working in a
company and pissing and moaning that
things aren't working you starting your
company Jesus Christ and thinking that
like oh this isn't working and it's
somebody else fault yeah exactly what
you said [__] you're not doing
what you need to do to win yeah just yes
so literally stop worrying about
anything other than no [__] what
would it take no [__] what would it
take what would I have to do and once
you take that on and won you're not
judging yourself for whether you win or
lose you're judging yourself by am i
sincerely pursuing this or not because
look there's so much you can't control
like as much as I ever ask myself what
can I do to make a change how much of
this can I own all that and it actually
drives me [__] crazy when people hear
that and then they think I'm saying I
can control people or the world I know
that I can't but I can always control
myself and in doing different things I
can at least change the odds of getting
a different outcome and so staying in
that like drivers position to me is what
it's all about and
looking at binary this is my goal either
what I did got me my goal or it didn't
and then just own it so I mean so much
what he just said that was that was
amazing
like I understand why that guy did what
he was doing it's this that you know he
said he what did he do he nailed his
penis that that's heart I still don't
understand but he whipped himself with a
belt with needles in it okay he whipped
him and then ultimately he nailed his
penis - uh yep a board or something huh
huh
so it's literally the same mental
concept as for why people do like
Ironman triathlons why people do these
just crazy just tasks of mental and
physical strength it's because they
understand and recognize what is on the
other end of that for someone like that
he probably you know due to his
condition or his his his health or lack
thereof he couldn't do some of those
things so he took advantage and leverage
that opportunity to really discover what
the human spirit was capable of and the
thing is the more discomfort we actively
seek out the more voluntary situations
we put ourselves in that hurt that don't
[__] feel good it makes the problems
that we encounter in business and life
infinitely more tolerable and instead of
defaulting to oh well it's this or
person's fault or that or every [__]
excuse that we can possibly we realize
that like this is [__] part of it
this is the game I'm not doing things
good enough so I need to [__] step up
stop being a [__] and do the things I
need to do to [__] fix whatever
problems that I have essentially created
and that's the [__] difference man
the people that are gonna make the
excuses and blame other circumstances
the president the economy this you know
this other come but whatever like those
are the people that haven't voluntarily
put themselves in enough situations
where they basically inflicted pain on
themselves via very hard workouts cold
showers like all these little
opportunities that we all have readily
available to ourselves every single day
that basically does things to our mind
that don't necessarily make it to where
as we don't have we you know have less
problem
but it puts us in a better position to
take action when we do experience the
problems and we recognize that those
problems aren't like you know bad things
for opportunities yeah that's
interesting there's something about hard
things I'm I'm super intrigued to
understand like one it prepares you so
cold exposure actually makes your body
marshal a response it increases your
immune system response you can actually
change some white adipose tissue into
brown fat so that you're more
thermogenic you can actually create more
heat okay cool so there's the
physiological nation right we got yeah
it's all real yeah but there's also
something about self-worth that is tied
to doing hard things specifically like
when you do difficult things I think it
changes the way that you feel about
yourself which is really interesting and
it falls into I think even the the same
realm Jordan Peterson talks a lot about
like cleaning your room yeah and I think
there's something similar about that
there's getting yourself organized being
disciplined doing hard things there's so
I I had wim HOF on the show and he's
like the master of cold exposure you
know people dunno don't know if you guys
haven't seen that episode by the way go
watch it impact Theory wim HOF and I
thought okay he's coming on the show I'm
gonna do cold exposure so I'll do cold
showers now because I've struggled with
anxiety in my life was that your first
time doing anything like that
yeah I'd never die I had avoided cold in
ways you can't imagine going out of it I
would plan my day around my outfits
everything around making sure that I
didn't get cold because wow I went
through a period in my life I really
really struggled debilitatingly with
anxiety got it and the physiological
response that I have to cold is
identical to the physiological response
I have when I'm anxious so being cold
made me feel entirely anxious like there
was no difference and if I was cold and
then put in an anxious situation I was
just a mess like I could feel the brain
leaving my prefrontal cortex my heart
racing my breathing getting shallow I
was shivering it was it was just really
really nightmarish and so I had avoided
it avoided it avoided it like always
trying to just make sure I was always
warm rather than inoculating myself
which would would have been much smarter
but so one I'm I've you know now at the
point that I started doing this I've
spent years dealing with my anxiety and
learning how to mentally handle it and
not being as sort of physically prone to
getting myself worked up so he comes on
the show I decided I'm gonna do it but I
only tell myself I think it was like
thirty days I'm gonna do thirty days and
then that's it and now it's been what
almost six months so because it was hard
and it made me feel good about myself it
just made me feel disciplined and tough
and resilient and and I like the the
real things that are happening
physiologically helped you build your
confidence I don't know that I'll say
that it was confidence that's that's a
different region of my brain but it let
me it furthered my self-respect yeah
when people put themselves in situations
where they do really hard things and
overcome you know adversity or just very
difficult tasks like at the other end of
it there's a lot of things there's a lot
of those you know the the chemical
reactions that we have and that we
experience but it also shows us that you
know what like we are capable when we
commit when we set our mind to something
and we put in the work and back our
actions up accordingly like we can do
pretty much anything that we set our
mind to and for a lot of people like it
starts with doing something small like
just start the cold showers man start
the cold showers do that build that in
your team then start with the workouts a
lot of I mean look most people aren't
going to the gym at all right even the
ones that that are like they're going
there and what are they doing Tom
they're they're going through the
motions right they're doing they're
doing the least amount of work in there
possible as opposed to going in there
and just going directly for the thing
that they want to do the very [__]
least the thing that they feel like if
they do it they're gonna look stupid
dude that is the type of [__] you need
to be doing more of those are little
opportunities that we have every single
day to build our mental toughness to
build our discipline and to essentially
build our confidence that will allow us
to kind of like take the plunge with
other bigger things and when you're an
entrepreneur or someone who has the
entrepreneur mindset do
nothing is more [__] important than
having confidence you gotta [__] know
that like alright I'm gonna [__] do
this and if it doesn't work out that's
okay because I'm gonna be that much
closer to the plan that is all right so
imagine right now somebody's listening
to this yeah zero self confidence
they're in total [__] mess yeah
what is your plan what do you have them
do I would tell I would tell them to get
on some sort of diet right and a lot of
people get overwhelmed because there's
so much conflicting information to start
a diet because I honestly believe I
started alluded to at the beginning of
the the beginning of the show I believe
that the food that we put in our bodies
and let me also just say that I'm not
just saying this because of the nature
of my business
look here Zeke and yes nothing to do
with the physique interests you not even
so give it to me them yeah so so I
believe that just like the people we
surround herself with I mean which which
dictate our mindset which raise or lower
our standards I believe the food that we
put our mouth has a very similar effect
I talking like on a microbiome level I'm
liking about like if we are eating foods
that make us to feel like [__] more
often than not and our body becomes
accustomed to feeling and performing
like [__] we're not gonna go there so
what are things that make people feel
like [__] what is the optimum diet yeah
like like I mean look if you're eating
out most the time you're eating going to
drive-thru right like eating [__] that's
like like heavily processed things that
I mean look everybody here knows what's
not good for them right
but convenience is I mean in 2019 world
conveniences essentially everything the
the problem with with diets and food in
general is it's not something like you
know when you eat something bad
something immediately bad happens to you
right like I mean if you do too much
drugs at one time you overdose you drink
too much you could you know end up in
the hospital wherever the cases eating
that food doesn't work like that it's
almost like a like a slow process for
your body essentially deals with it for
a long time until one day it no longer
and your body essentially acclimates to
feeling a certain way and you again
you're not aware of the fact that you're
feeling like [__] I mean look if you're
not eating good right now I would say
eat good for one day one [__] day we
eat a clean protein a lot of vegetables
drink a lot of water you will feel
different if you're eating like [__] or
not eating well right and you eat good
for just one day you're gonna feel
different sit just imagine like what
that's gonna do if that was something
that was part of your team when I
started to eating good and again like my
standards and my interpretation of
eating that has evolved and continues to
like in the hierarchy of reasons why eat
good looking good naked is probably like
number four like I eat good because I
want to feel good III try to set my life
my surroundings my environment just
everything up to optimizing the way that
I feel because when I when I'm [__]
on I'm feeling it
dude I feel like I can like levitate
mountains with my mind but when I'm not
what I'm around like bad energy or have
like just situations going on dude like
I resort back to feeling like how I did
like when I was a [__] [__] when
I was at Punk grounds we're now getting
street fights all the time angry and
resentful so like I'm aware now of how
good the body is designed to feel and
I'm also aware that most people live
their entire [__] lives not fully
understanding and so if you want to get
to a point where you know you're able to
perform your best and feel your best
dude you got to put [__] in your body
that's consistent with that and a lot of
other things will just kind of
organically sort themselves out so
without question if somebody who was no
confidence didn't really know where to
start
start eating good and based off that
like you're gonna start feeling better
you and I started looking better so
there's that that's important I mean
look most people they get up every
morning right the first thing that they
have to start their day is looking at a
reflection in the mirror that physically
and mentally disgust them that's a fact
and now they now take that with them Tom
for
their entire day that energy is there if
they're not even comfortable and
confident in their own skin how on earth
can they possibly do like to live their
best life and how can they get the most
out of the one opportunity to have on
this planet and it's a it's it's a
problem man 3/4 they don't population
right now categorize is either
overweight or obese for the first time
in the history of our species the
average humans life expectancy is
actually going down ask crazy it's well
it's I mean the thing that's crazy is
we're doing it to ourselves yeah by the
decisions that we're making with the
things that we're putting in our mouths
it's like look I mean I don't want you
guys to buy meals for my company and
whatever I just want you to feel good I
want you to do good I want you to live
your best life possible and I'm telling
you that it's not it's that's not
practical or realistic if you're not
essentially optimizing yourself for the
outcome that you're after and it starts
with things like you know the decisions
we make when you know where we're eating
all right so we've got diet
we've got just body composition what
else confidence yeah another thing that
I mean look like my big thing that you
know again it's helped me change my life
it continues to be a staple part of my
day it's something that I've I mean I
invest hundreds of thousands of dollars
a year into my team is the personal
development personal development is not
like it's like okay if you're going the
gym once or twice a week are you gonna
you're probably not going to get very
good results
personal development needs to not be
something that you do some of the time
when you feel like it when they get the
notification that you dropped a new a
new episode it needs to be personal
development is part of the work in my
opinion personal development is the most
important work of your life because it
essentially teaches you how to become
more effective with the work that you
are doing there are two ways to get
better experience which takes a long
time
and training and every day I mean we
have the opportunity to take advantage
of all of these resources that are
readily available to us most of which
are free and a 2019 world
that can essentially make us better that
can help us become like more evolved
versions of ourselves and think
differently which again like as I said
is extremely important to develop that
awareness of you know what the path
forward will entail mmm I love that man
all right if people want to dive in your
world where where can they find you yeah
i'm on instagram at chris Cavallini same
thing on facebook again crazy I think we
got moving so fast in the beginning this
I don't think I ever said your name
don't worry it'll be in the thank you
though thank you and I just start a
podcast a couple months ago and this is
something took me from the time I
started to thinking about it to the time
it actually materialized for like two
and a half years and again like I think
the tie-in with that as it relates to
what we're talking about is things take
time and often times things are gonna
take a lot longer then you know what we
want but you know when you stay the
course you stay committed and you know
you stay true to what it is you want it
will happen but a podcast started a
podcast if you're digging the vibe yeah
I'd love to have you guys listen check
us out on there and uh yes and uh some
feedback let me know what you think
awesome man well thank you so much it
was wonderful meet you and to hang out
yeah I love the way your mind works
thank you brother
awesome man everybody thanks for joining
us check them out you can follow me at
at tom bill you all right guys we'll see
on the flip side peace out thanks Tom I
[Music]
always do a little extra I always go the
extra inch and the quickest and easiest
place to do it is the gym because I can
always grab one more weight one more set
and it is what it does it shifts your
identity